---
layout: article
title: "Introduction"
---

{% include toc.html %}

{{site.data.core.project_description}}   .

## Background

Currently ASP.NET is one of the most used and recognized web frameworks.
Originally released on 2002 by Microsoft, the most recent release is version
4.5 dated August, 2012. It features all the expected from clean and modularized
web framework, including web services, web applications and web sites. ASP.NET
allows developers to deploy any supported .NET language in the server side,
given that it is built on top the Common Language Runtime.

## Problem

ASP.NET is currently being revised and re-implemented as a modular and cross
platform framework, for its next release version 5. The main goal of this
project is to accelerate and improve the re-implementation of the framework.

## Justification

ASP.NET is certainly a mature software project and suitable for intensive
applications at the enterprise level. Its evolution is watched by many and
taken into account even if not used. One popular feature of some web sites
running on ASP.NET is that their URLs finish on `aspx` or `asp`, for example
`http://someweb.site/Home.aspx`.

ASP.NET is open source and its development version 5 is currently in the works,
with the official repositories hosted at [Github](https://github.com/aspnet/).
The license of the source code is Apache 2.0.

The community and the Microsoft team interact with each other to raise issues,
make suggestions, request features or simply ask questions. All development
work is transparent at the commit level.

## Proposal

See also the [proposal](/proposal) document in spanish.

## Scope

"[Right now, living on the bleeding edge will
hurt](http://davidfowl.com/diagnosing-dependency-issues-with-asp-net-5/#incompatibilities)".
Since the release of the Visual Studio 2015 CTP 6 and the version of ASP.NET
shipped with it, a lot of activity has moved the ASP.NET projects into more
advanced development versions living the git repositories. Visual Studio 2015
CTP 6 is for the moment stuck at Beta 3; no bleeding edge development can be
done with Visual Studio, instead it currently can only be done directly via de
command line tools.

## Goals

* Test Visual Studio 2015 CTP 7.

* Publicly advocate ASP.NET, as well as .NET & Web technologies in general.

<!--
-->
