---
layout: article
permalink: /introduction/
title: "Introduction to aspnet5co project"
---

{% include toc.html %}

{{site.project_description}}   .

## Background

Currently ASP.NET is one of the most used and recognized web frameworks.
Originally released on 2002 by Microsoft, the most recent release is version
4.5 dated August, 2012. It features all the expected from clean and modularized
web framework, including web services, web applications and web sites. ASP.NET
allows developers to deploy any supported .NET language in the server side,
given that it is built on top the Common Language Runtime.

ASP.NET is certainly a mature software project and suitable for intensive
applications at the enterprise level. Its evolution is watched by many and
taken into account even if not used. One popular feature of some web sites
running on ASP.NET is that their URLs finish on `aspx` or `asp`, for example
`http://someweb.site/Home.aspx`.

## Problem

ASP.NET is currently being revised and re-implemented as a modular, lean and
cross platform framework for its next release version 5, offering very
important and desirable features and advantages. The license of the software
and the development methodology by Microsoft allows the project to benefit from
feedback and interaction with the community.

The main goal of this project is advocate the new version of the framework and
attract interest from IT professionals, as well as instruct developers into the
use of this version of the technology.  It has been expressed by the
development team that ASP.NET 5 will be released later in 2015, see [Project
Roadmap]({{ site.baseurl }}/roadmap).

## Justification

ASP.NET is open source and its development version 5 is currently in the works,
with the official repositories hosted at [Github](https://github.com/aspnet/).
The license of the source code is Apache 2.0.

The community and the Microsoft team interact with each other to raise issues,
make suggestions, request features or simply ask questions. All development
work is transparent at the commit level and the discussion is public too.

## Scope

ASP.NET 5 represents a rethinking and re-design of .NET server side
technologies, and it will impact all the current and future marketshare of the
framework. Notably, Microsoft and related organizations are betting on open
source and community driven progress across their whole server technology
stack. It's expected that the new release of ASP.NET positively synergizes with
other open source projects and events, including but not limited to:

* Release of .NET CoreCLR

* Release of .NET 5 as open source

* Founding of the [.NET Foundation](http://www.dotnetfoundation.org/).

* Use of [Github](https://github.com/) as the main platform for discussion and
transparent development.

## Proposal and goals

[aspnet5co](http://lopezpdvn.github.io/aspnet5co) is a project that comprises
the efforts by [Pedro I. Lopez](http://lopezpedro.net) to advocate the [ASP.NET
5](http://www.asp.net/vnext) framework and to introduce developers and other IT
professionals to it.

The goals of the project are:

* Publicly advocate ASP.NET, as well as .NET & Web technologies in general.

* Introduce the new technology to technical and non-technical audiences.

  * Developers both new to .NET & ASP.NET or experienced in previous versions.

  * Business leaders looking into integrating modern and robust web
    technologies in their planning.

* Identify needs and feature requests of the development version of ASP.NET and
  other related open source project in the .NET community.

* Test previews versions of ASP.NET 5 and Visual Studio 2015.

* Give feedback about ASP.NET development in Linux, given that the author has
  experience on such operating system.
